## Proposal
### Section 1: Motivation and Purpose 
	
In order to make Boston a safer place, we propose making a data visualization app to help visitors determine where/when to visit, help police deal with crime and help residents determine where to live/where to go out. Our app will utilize data provided by the Boston Police Department. Users can filter based on the time of day or specific crime type in order to see which areas are the most dangerous. In addition, our app will feature a trend graph where users can see the trends of criminal activity over the user-specified date range. 

### Section 2: Description of the data
Our app will be based on a dataset of approximately 260,000 crime reports collected over a time period from 2015 to 2018. Our dataset is provided by the Boston Police Department, and was posted publicly on Kaggle. Each crime report contains 17 different variables which describe various aspects of the crime such as the exact location the crime was committed (`STREET`, `LATITUDE`, `LONGITUDE`, `LOCATION`), when the crime was committed (`OCCURRED_ON_DATE`, `YEAR`, `MONTH`, `DAY_OF_WEEK`, `HOUR`) and the type of crime committed (`OFFENSE_CODE`, `OFFENSE_DESCRIPTION`).

### Section 3: Research questions and usage scenarios
**Questions**:
- Which neighbourhoods in Boston have the highest crime counts? (This will be visualized using a choropleth map.)
- What is the most common crime committed in Boston? (This will be visualized using a bar graph.)
- What time of the day are crimes committed in Boston? (This will be visualized using a heatmap.)
- How has the crime count in Boston changed over time? (This will be visualized using a line graph.)

#### Scenario 1: Romeo is deciding where to move to in Boston.	

Romeo will be moving to Boston and he wants to understand crime patterns in Boston in order to determine the safest area to move to. He wants to be able to explore a dataset of crime records in order to compare the crime counts and patterns of different neighbourhoods and identify the safest neighbourhood to move to. When Romeo logs on to the “Boston Crime App” he will see an overview of the crime counts and patterns he is interested in. He will see a `choropleth map` of Boston which shows the count of crime in each neighbourhood. The neighbourhoods that have a high crime count will be in a darker colour. Therefore, Romeo will know that these neighbourhoods may not be the safest to live in. He will also see a `crime type bar graph` of the occurrences of different types of crime and a `crime trend line` outlining the trend of the crime count over time. Romeo can filter for the neighbourhood he is interested in and see which types of crime are most common in the neighbourhood. He can also see if the crime count has been increasing or decreasing in the neighbourhood. If Romeo is more concerned about a certain type of crime, he can filter for this crime and find the neighbourhoods that have the least number of occurrences of the crime. Romeo can also filter for the current year (or any other year) to see more recent and relevant crime statistics. Romeo hypothesizes that neighbourhood X is the safest neighbourhood to live in. Romeo decides he needs to do further research on rental prices in this neighbourhood to determine if he could afford to live there.

#### Scenario 2:  Juliet is the chief of police trying to decide where to place her officers.

Juliet is the Chief of Police in Boston, Massachusetts. In order to keep the residents of her fine city safe, she needs to know how to effectively and efficiently allocate her force. The “Boston Crime App” provides Juliet many features which will give her information on where and when crimes are most likely to occur. The `choropleth map` will show Juliet how Boston’s neighbourhoods compare to each other in terms of crime counts, and this map can be filtered to focus both on specific years, or specific crimes. The `crime type bar graph` will allow Juliet to see which crime types are most prevalent, and this can also be filtered by neighbourhood.  The `crime trend line` will show Juliet how crime counts in Boston have changed over time, which can provide not only data about the effectiveness of past interventions, it also allows for forecasting of future police demands. The `crime heat map`, which can be filtered by neighbourhood, will allow Juliet to see which shifts during the week require the most officers. From her interactions with the “Boston Crime App” Juliet may notice that there are certain areas or times of the week where the police force has been chronically under or overstaffed. She may be able to forecast which neighbourhoods will need more officers in the future, and which neighbourhoods are moving in the right direction. Juliet will be able to optimize how she assigns her officers, and the residents of the city of Boston will be safer because of it. 

